Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering About People Labs Announcements Circulars Time Tables Gallery Achievement Questions About Electronics and Communication Engineering has gained importance in recent years due to its versatile application in every facet of engineering field. It mainly deals with the principles of electronic devices and communication technologies along with the basic electronic components, design of circuits and systems. The programmes are designed to produce professional Engineers who are capable of analyzing, specifying, designing, com missioning and maintaining complex electronic communications systems to enable continuous improvements in standards of living enjoyed by society through the ingenuity of engineers. The courses open up a very wide range of employment opportunities, firstly by providing students with a comprehensive ground in engineering and electronics principles and then by allowing specialization that enables them to focus on a particular area of technology. This focus can be further enhanced by an appropriate choice of final-year project topic, which offers students an opportunity to acquire skills and experience in areas not otherwise covered by the main modules on the course. Goals and Objectives: Create conducive atmosphere in the department through which the students, especially from rural area will discover their own potential in Electronics and Communication Engineering and cater to the needs of industries of surrounding areas. Provide practical exposure to the students through modern laboratories with continuous upgradation. Provide opportunities to students to help upgrade their conceptual knowledge, by enhancing the information sources like Library, internet access facilities, etc. Create technical awareness among the students through special lectures from eminent resource persons, through industrial visits and in plant training. Provide opportunity to improve students' skills and competencies through participation in seminar, technical paper presentation and project works within the campus and at reputed companies. Improve the faculty performance through continuous education, organizing and participating in seminars, workshops, national and international conferences. Motivate both faculty and students to undertake research works and develop products through Industry and Institution co-operation. Offer Post Graduate Degree Programme with the specialization of DSP, Embedded Systems and Communication Systems. To make this institution a Center of Excellence in Electronics and Communication Engineering with specialization in DSP, VLSI, Embedded Systems and Communication Systems. The department of Electronics and Communication Engineering has set the above objectives to fulfill the mission of the Department and thereby the vision of our college. Vision To achieve academic excellence by providing quality education in different dimensions of electronics and communication engineering. Mission To provide excellence in education and research among students using tools and techniques of electronics and communication engineering. To build and develop skills, expertise and ethical values among students for employment, entrepreneurship and societal use. To inculcate the thirst of life-long learning of advanced technologies to reach heights of excellence globally. Program Educational Objectives (PEO'S) To focus on conceptual knowledge and creativity in Electronics and communication engineering to innovate, design and development for global competition. To inculcate the practice of team work to achieve project objectives using modern technical methods. To communicate effectively, demonstrate leadership skills and exhibit professional conduct for employment and entrepreneurship in competitive environment. To involve in lifelong self-learning, research enhancement and adapt to work for multidisciplinary professional and social needs. Program Outcomes (PO'S) Engineering Graduates will be able to: Engineering knowledge: Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems. Problem analysis: Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences. Design/development of solutions: Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration for the public health and safety, and the cultural, societal, and environmental considerations. Conduct investigations of complex problems: Use research-based knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions. Modern tool usage: Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including prediction and modeling to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations. The engineer and society: Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice. Environment and sustainability: Understand the impact of the professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development. Ethics: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice. Individual and team work: Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings. Communication: Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society at large, such as, being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions. Project management and finance: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments. Life-long learning: Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change. Program Specific Outcomes (PSO'S) Engineering Graduates will be able to: Students will be able to apply fundamentals of electronics and communication engineering in various domains of engineering. Students will be able to analyze, design and implement various functional elements of electronics and communication systems. Students will be able to understand the social, ethical and environmental aspects of different electronics and communication technologies.