Startup Cell Details Circulars Members Details ### Vision & ### Vision & Mission /Goal of Start-up Cell: The Entrepreneurship Development Cell at Government Engineering College, Ajmer established the Start-up Cell in December 2017, based on Start-up India Policies. • The ### Vision & ### Vision & Mission is to harness the innovative potential of students to raise the country’s economy and overall quality of life. • The cell supports interaction among students, experienced professionals, successful entrepreneurs, investors, and corporates through events like interactive sessions, competitions, and conferences. • Long Term Goals (5 Years): Motivate students to develop their own startups. • Develop business incubators. • Create a corpus fund to seed ventures. • Short Term Goals (2 Years): Provide a platform for interaction with entrepreneurs. • Develop entrepreneurial education and skills among students through trainings and exercises. • Arrange events like interactive sessions, competitions, and conferences with organizations promoting entrepreneurship. • Objectives of Start-up Cell: Develop a motivated student and ### Faculty community with entrepreneurial orientation and skills. • Build infrastructure support for innovation and early-stage enterprise development, enabling access to resources at the institute. • Enhance in-house competency development to serve potential and early-stage entrepreneurs and student innovators. • Strengthen inter- departmental and inter-institutional linkages, incubators, and ecosystem enablers. ### About Department Start-up Cell and Current Status: Engage students to develop an entrepreneurial mindset. • Inspire students with an urge to innovate. • Network student enterprises with incubators, seeding funds, and angel investors. • Organize workshops and national-level competitions. • Conduct expert lectures by successful entrepreneurs. • Assign real-time projects to bridge the gap between industry and academics. • Develop industry-ready students and reduce unemployment. • Result-Based Micro Action Plan with Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) System & KPIs: Coordinate with external agencies for entrepreneurship support. • Provide mentoring sessions for high-focus groups on fundraising, engagement, and business development. • Create an enabling entrepreneurial environment attracting investments, employment, and wealth creation. • Build a stock of socially responsible entrepreneurs with market awareness. • Facilitate capacity building of entrepreneurs and play a catalyst role in promoting entrepreneurship. • Support government in formulating entrepreneur-friendly policies. • Impact on students includes changing attitude towards entrepreneurship, ownership skills, financial literacy, and closing the wealth gap.