Engineering College Ajmer ​ ▼ Hindi Department of Civil Engineering About People Labs Announcements Circulars Time Tables Gallery Achievement Questions About Civil engineering is a professional engineering discipline that deals with the design, construction, and maintenance of the physical and naturally built environment, including works like roads, bridges, canals, dams, and buildings. Engineering College, Ajmer was established in 1997 and the Civil Engineering Department is part of the institute since 2011 with AICTE sanctioned strength 75 (60+12+3) students in UG program. The Department has grown tremendously over the years and is now recognized as one of the major engineering departments. The Department of Civil Engineering with its multifaceted faculty continues to maintain and cultivate its strong links with the infrastructural industry and academic and research institutions both within and outside the country. Vision Entrusted by society and industry to foster a sustainable world by making competent and ethically strong Civil Engineers. Mission To impart quality education to prepare competitive undergraduate students for a successful career in civil engineering. To impart soft skills, leadership qualities and professional ethics among the graduates to handle projects independently. To promote innovative thinking in the minds of promising engineers to face the future challenges for an evolving sustainable world. Program Outcomes of Civil Engineering Graduate (PO'S) Engineering knowledge: Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems. Problem analysis: Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences. Design/development of solutions: Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration for the public health and safety, and the cultural, societal, and environmental considerations. Conduct investigations of complex problems: Use research-based knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions. Modern tool usage: Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including prediction and modeling to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations. The engineer and society: Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice. Environment and sustainability: Understand the impact of the professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development. Ethics: Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice. Individual and team work: Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings. Communication: Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society at large, such as, being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions. Project management and finance: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments. Life-long learning: Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change. Program Specific Outcomes (PSO'S) Graduates shall have the ability of critical thinking based on in depth knowledge of Civil Engineering to obtain optimal solutions to complex problems. Graduates shall be able to plan and supervise various construction activities in a sustainable way for completion of various projects satisfactorily. Graduates shall imbibe ethical practices and social responsibility in their professional endure. Important Links Newsletter 2023-24 Newsletter 2024-2025