ECA TPO About Us About Training And Placement Cell The Training and Placement Cell (T&P Cell) offers an opportunity for interaction among companies and college students. It works under the guidance of the Training & Placement Officer in consultation with the Faculty coordinators and TPO assistant. T&P Cell helps final - year students who wish to find suitable jobs after the completion of their courses or programs. However, the training and g rooming commences from the very first year. T&P Cell's efforts have been characterized by the ability to identify talent, classify students, and address their strengths and shortcomings. The Faculty coordinators also prepare the company profile to assist students in understanding the work culture and job prerequisites. T&P Cell provides full placement support to its students in all areas of disciplines - Computer Engineering, Information Technology, Cyber Security, Electronic and Communication Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Electronics and Instrumentation & Control Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Management Computer Applications etc. The fact that renowned companies have visited the college and conducted campus recruitment drives is a testament to the T&P Cell's efforts. To organize the campus drive, invitation letters, and emails are sent to a variety of companies and organizations. Students who express their interest are also offered internships to help them prepare them industry - ready. . . READ MORE Vision To foster harmonious value - oriented environment for all in an efficient innovative manner to contribute nation through excellence in academics and research. Mission To nurture value oriented competent professionals through conceptual, analytical and technical knowledge for overall sustainable societal development. To achieve academic excellence in engineering, technology and science by imparting quality based education. To strengthen managerial and entrepreneurial skills to start new ventures. To inculcate inquisitive and research oriented approach. Objectives Of The Training & Placement Cell To bridge the gap between academic learning and industry requirements by facilitating training sessions, workshops, and industrial visits. To organize campus placement drives and provide opportunities for internships in reputed organizations, ensuring students gain real - world experience. To guide and support students in developing soft skills, communication skills, and technical knowledge to enhance employability. To collaborate with industries and research centers for promoting industry - institute interaction and fostering innovation. To assist students in preparing for competitive exams like GATE and other higher education opportunities. Our Team No team groups.